Headaches are common at any age.
There are three basic types:
tension, cluster, and migraine headaches.
Tension headaches brought on by stress
and emotional strain are the most common.
Pain is usually felt on
both sides of the head,
at the temples or
back of the head and neck.
Less common are cluster headaches,
which are marked by severe,
one-sided pain that comes back
in episodes or clusters
over weeks or months.
They start in an area of the brain
called the hypothalamus,
which is more active
during the headache.
These debilitating headaches
run in families.
Migraine headaches
also run in families.
They are often confused with
sinus headaches but differ
in the following ways.
Migraines often start quickly,
sometimes with visual disturbances
called auras before the headache.
The pain worsens rapidly and
usually resolves within 72 hours.
Migraines often occur
more than once a month.